#summary Features of current development version
#labels Featured,Experimental

version=3.17.2

= "Leaf miner" Development Release (Sep 17, 2012) =

= Development will continue in the 3.17 series only! =
  * New features, after some time of testing, may be backported to the stable 3.16 series.

== Caveat emptor: ==
  * Development releases contain new additions to the code - which may not be thoroughly tested and result in malfunction.
  * To keep development going, I'd like you to try to break them and give feedback about any misbehaviour you may encounter.
  * Please report your observations to Steve8x8 at Google Mail *only*.
  * In your report, please include: command line, information about OS, locale/codepage settings, GC localization, Ruby and GeoToad versions.
  * See the ReportingBugs wiki page. The "verbose" option is the culprit.
  * Possible known issues below...:
  * New strategy of extracting owner and cache names (issue 245) may result in bad output data under Windows. Please e-mail "list" output.
  * ...

= New development version 3.17.2 =
  * nicknamed "Leaf miner" after looking out of the window at almost bald chestnut trees

== Issues addressed: ==
  * Issue 174: insert "info" log entry into GPX
  * Issue 175: attempt to enable selective cleanup for Windows
  * Issue 250: ignore "nil" visitors
  * Issue 252: remove "span" tags from description HTML
  * Issue 253: validate remote files; "next page" for other languages
  * Issue 254: catch date conversion exception
  * Issue 255: "location" queries: error handling, info output
  * Some minor other stuff

= New development version 3.17.1 =
  * nicknamed "Rousseau" on the occasion of his 300th birthday

== Issues addressed: ==
  * Issue 244: Use a better pattern for GC id parsing
  * Issue 245: Cache "name by owner" - better separation
  * Issue 247: Attempt to address issue. May break Windows with Ruby 1.9?
  * Issue 248: "yourfindgpx" template ("myfindgpx" for login!=query user)
  * Issue 249: Replace "medium" back with "regular"
  * Remote fetches now progressively delayed, starting with 1 second
  * Minor other stuff

= New development version 3.17.0 =

== Addressed issues: ==
  * (everything in 3.16.0, see [CurrentVersion stable version])
  * Issue 233: If one cacheType selected, use tx= search parameter
  * Issue 234: Fav points listed in html and text, fav filter in UI
  * Issue 235: Shortcut "-N" ("--notFoundByMe") for "-E myself"
  * Issue 236: -E option takes user=filename to avoid query
  * Issue 244: better parsing patterns for wid, name, creator
  * Issue 245: address "multiple-by" problem
  * Progressive sleeps
  * Improved cleanup strategy

= Get it: =
  * *{{{svn checkout http://geotoad.googlecode.com/svn/branches/steve8x8/ geotoad-devel}}}*
  * packages available from download area (tagged "Development" - select "All downloads")

= See also: =
  * [CurrentVersion Current stable version]
  * [DebianUbuntuRepository Debian/Ubuntu repository]
