#summary How to set up and use a Debian (Ubuntu) repository on Google Code
#labels Featured, Development

= How to set up and use a Debian (Ubuntu) repository on Google Code =

_Last change: 2013-06-27 Steve8x8_

== Goal ==

  * Instead of manually downloading deb packages, and taking care of their dependencies by hand, let APT do the work, by including 1-2 line(s) into {{{/etc/apt/sources.list}}}.

== What we need ==

  * A full-fledged "standard structured" repository would be overkill for a single package.
  * Use the existing Downloads space of GoogleCode together with a specially crafted {{{Packages.gz}}} file.
  * {{{Packages.gz}}} describes the recent version deb package and has to be replaced at release time.

== What doesn't work ==

  * GoogleCode makes files in the Downloads area *permanent* (after 2 days or 50 downloads? source?).
  * A {{{Packages.gz}}} file there could *not* be maintained.
  * A "simple" *HTML redirect* doesn't work since APT doesn't follow it.

== What I have found ==

  * The *monkey-tools* project maintains a {{{Packages.gz}}} file within their {{{hg}}} tree.
  * It contains {{{Filename:}}} entries relative to the root of the project, i.e. starting with {{{files/}}}
  * Fortunately, APT sources lines (at least the non-standard ones) may have a somewhat strange semantics:
    {{{deb http://server/base/ relative/path/to/Packages}}} results in the {{{Packages.gz}}} file being downloaded from {{{http://server/base/relative/path/to/Packages/}}} while the packages themselves are retrieved from {{{http://server/base/_filename-entry_}}}

== What GeoToad does now ==

  * Build script ({{{makedist.sh}}}) drops (outdated) {{{*.gz}}} files from {{{data/}}}
  * In the build directory, after building the package, run
    {{{dpkg-scanpackages . | sed 's~./~files/~' | gzip -9 >Packages.gz}}}
  * Place {{{Packages.gz}}} in the {{{data/}}} subtree.
  * _(Same could be done for {{{Sources.gz}}})_
  * SVN-commit the change.

== How to merge the GeoToad repository into your installation ==

  * Put a single line into your {{{/etc/apt/sources.list}}}:
{{{
deb http://geotoad.googlecode.com/ svn/trunk/data/
}}}
  * For development version, it's two lines (use stable if there's no development going on):
{{{
deb http://geotoad.googlecode.com/ svn/trunk/data/
deb http://geotoad.googlecode.com/ svn/branches/steve8x8/data/
}}}
  * Run {{{apt-get update}}} and {{{apt-get upgrade|install}}} (or the {{{aptitude}}} equivalents).
    You will have to answer a question with "y" (this is safe, and unavoidable):
{{{
WARNING: The following packages cannot be authenticated!
  geotoad
Install these packages without verification [y/N]? y
}}}

== Is it clean? ==

  * It might be cleaner if Google allowed replacing files even after some time.
  * It might be cleaner if APT would follow a HTML redirect.
  * Under the given circumstances, it's perhaps the best we can do...
  * There might be a separate directory ({{{apt/}}}?) for the lists... but does it make a difference?
  * Currently, there is no way to "sign" the repository, and I can't see it'd be worth the trouble.
