#summary Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Featured


<wiki:toc max_depth="2">

= Questions and Answers: =

== How do you enable friendly waypoint id names? ==
These synthesized names are a feature named EasyName. Set your maximum
EasyName waypoint length (16 for Garmin), and they will be enabled.


== Geocaching Swiss Army Knife complains about the GPX format. How do I make them compatible? ==
Don't use EasyName waypoints.


== What software can you use the GPX files in? ==
Here are a few software products I have found that make use of GPX 
files. If you have any to add, please e-mail thomas%stromberg.org

Windows:
  *    Geocaching Swiss Army Knife http://gsak.net/
  *    GPX Spinner     (Free)    http://www.gpxspinner.com/
  *    EasyGPS         (Free)    http://www.easygps.com/
  *    Utopia          (Free)    http://home.earthlink.net/~msargent2/ch/
  *    G7ToWin         (Free)    http://www.gpsinformation.org/ronh/
  *    GPSbabel        (Free)    http://gpsbabel.sourceforge.net/

Mac OS X:
  *    Mac SimpleGPS   (Free)    http://www.macsimplegps.com/
  *    GPS Connect     (Free)    http://www.chimoosoft.com/gpsconnect.html
  *    FlightTrack     (Free)    http://flighttrack.sourceforge.net/
  *    GPSbabel        (Free)    http://gpsbabel.sourceforge.net/

Linux/UNIX:
  *    GPSbabel        (Free)    http://gpsbabel.sourceforge.net/
  *    GPSMan          (Free)    http://www.ncc.up.pt/gpsman/

Android:
  *    CacheMate       ($10)      http://www.smittyware.com/droid/cachemate/

PalmOS:
  *    CacheMate       ($10)      http://www.smittyware.com/palm/cachemate/

Symbian UIQ (Sony Ericsson, Motorola):
  *    GPS-Navigator   ($16)     http://www.wohlfahrt-edv.de/
  *    PowerNavigation ($20)     http://www.symbianware.com/product.php?id=powernavigation_uiq
  *    SmartGPX        (free)    http://www.smartcaching.de/smartgpx.html

Symbian Series 60 & 80 (Nokia):
  *    AFTrack         (Free)    http://afischer-online.de/sos/AFTrack/
  *    PowerNavigation ($23)     http://www.symbianware.com/product.php?id=powernavigation80
  *    SmartGPX        (Free)    http://www.smartcaching.de/smartgpx.html

Windows Mobile/CE/Pocket PC:
  *    CacheMate       ($10)      http://www.smittyware.com/palm/cachemate/
  *    GPXView         (Free)     http://strandberg.org/gpxview/
  *    cachebox        (Free)     http://getcachebox.net


== Why is there no GUI for GeoToad? ==
Because we haven't gotten to it yet. There have been some
failed projects by 3rd party users to produce one, and we are
looking for developers to give us this capability in a future version.


== What are the "Fun Factor" ratings? ==

Fun Factor is a 'synthesized' rating that is generated by 
parsing the geocache comments with a spam filtering engine that
has been taught what an exciting geocache is or a dull geocache.

If you would like to tune or calibrate this rating system, take 
a look at the files in tools/ to add new caches to your preference
database ({{{data/}}}). No documentation is available for these tools
at this time.

Fun factors may be replaced by favorite counts in the future.


== geotoad.exe gets relative paths wrong in Windows ==
This only affects users of the command-line, rather than the text user
interface.

GeoToad for Windows is packaged by {{{tar2rubyscript}}} and {{{rubyscript2exe}}},
which seems to forget the current working directory. Because of this,
if you are using a relative path, it will default to the directory
that GeoToad is installed to, rather than the working directory it
was launched from.


== What about country and state searches? ==
Some previous versions of GeoToad already allowed country/state searches.
The code has been rewritten to some extent, to handle the ambiguity of
names, and is available *in the development series only*.

There's no reasonable way to clarify ambiguities when you're running the
command line version, instead of giving a _name_ it is now required to
submit a unique country (or state) _ID_ (a numerical value).

Since there are more than 250 countries, and about 400 states in
the list (and the lists are constantly changed by Groundspeak),
GeoToad's TUI lets you find out about the ID you are looking for:

  * Enter the Text User Interface (by running GeoToad without any parameters)
  * Select the search type ("country" or "state", from the list)
  * If in "country" mode, enter a name pattern for "country":
    * For "Sweden", "{{{swe}}}" will do; for the United States, "{{{state}}}" will give you a selection between "Vatican City State" (213) and "United States" (2).
    * Use the numeric ID for your "{{{-q country ID}}}" command-line query.
  * Note that "country" queries will fail if geocaching.com has "split" the country into states (regions, provinces, etc.) - proceed to "state" query in that case!
  * If in "state" mode, you will have to prefix the state pattern with a country pattern and a slash:
    * "{{{swe/sterb}}}" will return ID 374 for Sweden/Västerbotten; "{{{ger/bra}}}" will, through a country selection from Niger--Nigeria--Algeria--Germany (Germany, of course), lead to to Brandenburg (138).
    * To select from a full list of states (regions, etc.) of a given country, you may use a pattern like "{{{France/.*}}}".
    * Use the numeric ID in your "{{{-q state ID}}}" query.

Note that country and state lists are cached for about 2 months.


== How to contact developers? ==
If you think you found a bug, please check the [ReportingBugs ReportingBugs] wiki page
for some instructions.
You may now reach us via Twitter: {{{@GeoToad_}}} (note the underscore at
the end of the twitter name!)
